feat: developer concepts (#46)
reactioncommerce/docs: guides/developers-guide/concepts/how-to-create-inventory-plugin.md

# Create an Inventory Data Provider Plugin

Before you create a custom inventory data provider plugin, make sure that you need one.
- If your inventory system outputs periodic files but doesn't allow you to read inventory programmatically in real time, you may want to use the "Simple Inventory" plugin and only update the values. Refer to option 2 [here](./core-plugins-simple-inventory#how-to-sync-inventory-quantities-from-an-external-system).
- If you use a well-known third-party inventory system, there may be a community plugin already available for it. If not, consider making yours available as open source so that the community can help you maintain it.

> Once you're sure you need to create a custom inventory plugin, use the standard steps to create the plugin boilerplate. Beyond that, an inventory plugin needs to do the following:

Reviewer: We should have a link for `use the standard steps to create the plugin boilerplate`

- Register an `inventoryForProductConfigurations` type function that returns current inventory in stock and other related data for a list of product configurations.

> - Optionally provide a way of editing the inventory in stock in the operator UI, by registering client components

Reviewer: Plugins can no longer register client components. This should be removed.

   return {
     inventoryInfo: {
       canBackorder,
       inventoryAvailableToSell,
       inventoryInStock,
       inventoryReserved,
       isLowQuantity
     },
     productConfiguration
   };
 });
}
```

Pass your function in the `functionsByType` list:

```js
import inventoryForProductConfigurations from "./inventoryForProductConfigurations";

/**
* @summary Import and call this function to add this plugin to your API.
* @param {ReactionAPI} app The Reaction API apistance
* @return {undefined}
*/
export default async function register(app) {
 await app.registerPlugin({
   label: "My Inventory Data Plugin",
   name: "my-inventory-data-plugin",
   functionsByType: {
     inventoryForProductConfigurations: [inventoryForProductConfigurations]
   }
 });
}
```

> You may be aware that the core inventory plugin provides two queries: `inventoryForProductConfigurations` (multiple) and `inventoryForProductConfiguration` (single). The single version of the function is a convenience wrapper that calls the multiple versions, an inventory data plugin needs to provide only this one function, which expects multiple product configurations.

## Optionally add UI components

> How and whether you should do this step depends a lot on how your plugin is tracking inventory. If you want any information to be viewable or editable in the operator UI, you can extend the GraphQL API and register UI blocks to appear where you need them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How and whether you should do this step depends a lot on how your plugin is tracking inventory. If you want any information to be viewable or editable in the operator UI, you can extend the GraphQL API to make it possible to retrieve or edit that data.
```

## Track reserved/available inventory

In addition to providing "in stock" inventory values, most inventory data providers also somehow track "reserved" inventory and/or automatically increase or decrease the "in stock" and "available" values as orders are placed, approved, and fulfilled. Refer to the `startup` function in the Simple Inventory plugin for one example of how you can do this. The rest of the Reaction system does not care how you do this, and for a low volume shop you may be able to skip it entirely.

> If you do track reserved inventory, it can be an inexact science. We recommend that you provide operators with a way of manually fixing or updating the reserved quantity, as the Simple Inventory plugin does with the `recalculateReservedSimpleInventory` GraphQL mutation and corresponding UI button.# Inventory

The default Reaction system does not have inventory tracking enabled for any products. All products that you publish to the catalog are available for purchase in any quantity and will never show up as low on stock, sold out, or backordered.

> If you do track inventory, Reaction provides a [Simple Inventory plugin](./core-plugins-simple-inventory.md) that allows you to update inventory in stock and other inventory settings in the operator UI. It also keeps track of inventory that was ordered but which you have not yet removed from the in-stock number, to ensure that you do not sell what you don't have available.

Reviewer: I currently do no see inventory settings in the operator UI
